Title: Coursera - HCI : Needfinding
Date: 2014-02-02 14:25
Author: Richo
Tags: HCI, needfinding
Category: HCI
Summary: A note of introduction about needfinding on Coursera

###Participant Observation(觀察)
You can Observe a lot just by watching - Yogi Berra  
「熟悉使用者」通常是設計流程中一個適當的起點。  

####Deep Hanging Out  
-	花時間與他人一起工作、充分體會他們的生活，藉此深入了解他們行為背後的意義，超越語言的範疇。  

####5 Key Questions
1.	What do people do now?  
2.	What values and goals do people have?  
3.	How are these particular activities embedded in a large ecology?  
4.	Similarities and differences across people?  
5.	...and other types of context, like time of a day.  

####Appetentice(見習)
-	Set up a partnership with the people to be observed  
-	Be taught the steps in the process  
-	Observe all of the practices  
-	Validate what you are observing with those observed as you go along  

Pay attention to all the artifacts  
Look for workarounds & hacks  
"Errors" are a goldmine  

####Reference
+[Participant Observation](https://class.coursera.org/hci-003/lecture/20)  
+[Kuniavsky, Observing the User Experience](http://books.google.com.tw/books/about/Observing_the_User_Experience.html?id=jIrl2L_JvZoC&redir_esc=y)  
+[Beyer & Holtzblatt, Contextual Design](http://books.google.com.tw/books?id=sVKuMvaFzjQC&dq=Beyer+%26+Holtzblatt,+Contextual+Design&hl=zh-TW&source=gbs_navlinks_s)  

***

###Interviewing(訪談)
除了觀察，訪談通常也對設計流程有很多幫助。  

####Choosing Participants
-	Representative of target users  
-	May be current users of a similar system  
-	Might also be the non-users  

####Recruiting Participants
-	Get a diverse set of stakeholders  
-	Use incentives and motivation  
-	Approximate better than nothing  

####Approximate if Necessary  
(may not be ideal, but better than
nothing)  
假設我們想針對醫生設計一套系統，也許我們找不到很多醫生來訪問，但我們也許可以找到一些醫學院的學生來代替醫生成為受訪者；也許不理想，但有總比沒有好。  

####Malcolm Gladwell on Journalism - from the introduction to What the Dog saw
“The trick to finding ideas is to convince yourself that everyone and everything has a story to tell.  
I say trick, but what I really mean is challenge, because it’s a very hard thing to do.  
Shampoo doesn’t seem interesting? Well, dammit, it must be, and if it isn’t,  
I have to believe that it will ultimately lead me [to something] that is.”  
“The other trick to finding ideas is figuring out the difference between power and knowledge.  
You don’t start at the top if you want to find the story.  
You start in the middle, because it’s the people in the middle who do the actual work in the world.  
My friend Dave, who taught me about ketchup, is a middle guy.  
He’s worked on ketchup. That’s how he knows about it.  
People at the top are self-conscious about what they say (and rightfully so) because they have position and privilege to protect — and self consciousness is the enemy of ‘interestingness.’”  
“In ‘The Pitchman’ you’ll meet Arnold Morris, who gave me the pitch for the ‘Dial-O-Matic’ vegetable slicer one summer day in his kitchen on the Jersey Shore: ‘Come on over, folks.  
I’m going to show you the most amazing slicing machine you have ever seen in your life,’ he began.  
He picked up a package of barbecue spices and used it as a prop.  
‘Take a look at this!’ He held it in the air as if he were holding up a Tiffany vase.  
That’s where you find stories, in someone’s kitchen on the Jersey Shore.”  

####What Are Good Questions?
The more open-ended your questions are, the more interesting the answers that you’ll get.  
(針對leading questions，人們傾向回答Yes)  

####Other Types of Questions to Avoid
-	What they would do / like / want in hypothetical scenarios  
-	How often they do things  
-	How much they like things on an absolute scale  
-	Avoid binary Questions  

####Silence is Golden(a little bit)
You may get a quick answer at first. Let some silence happen. After a few seconds, you’ll hear the second story. And the second story is often a lot more interesting.  

####Reference
+[Interviewing](https://class.coursera.org/hci-003/lecture/1)  

***

###Additional Needfinding Strategies(需求分析策略)

####Diary Studies
-	Give people a diary that they complete at a specified time
or interval  
-	Structured task  
-	Can use journals, cameras, voice, video  
-	Tailor the recording to the context  
-	Can scale better than direct observation  
-	Easier tools -> better results  
-	May require some practice, training, reminding  

####Experience Sampling(Also Pager Study)
Experience sampling, like diary studies, is useful for aggregating information across lots of people.  

####Extreme Users
Related to lead users are what we might call “extreme users”.  
Think about something like email. All of us get a lot of email, but some of us get a lot more than others.  
Those people who get a whole lot of email, far more than the average person, they’re extreme users from the vantage point of email.  
And we can often learn things from those extreme users — how they handle thousands of messages a day, for example — that we might then be able to encapsulate and make available to all users and help everyone.  

####Personas(角色)
-	A model of a person, an example.  
	*	includes demographic information, but should also capture a person’s motivation, beliefs, intentions, behavior and goals  
-	Draw a picture of your persona or use a photo  
	*	give him or her a name, an occupation, a background, a social situation, some hopes, dreams, and goals etc. Give the persona a story to tell  
-	Knowing what our persona thinks, does, and feel help build empathy  
	*	so that you can understand the state of mind, emotion, philosophy, beliefs, or point of view of the user  
-	Empathy leads to insights which leads to design opportunities  

####Reference
+[Additional Needfinding Strategies](https://class.coursera.org/hci-003/lecture/14)  

***

###Creating Design Goals(設計目標)

####All design is redesign
At least for me, that says we ought to have a really good sense of what the existing situations are and what preferred means for us. “preferred” has to do with both the user’s goals and your point of view as a designer.  

####Making this explicit
-	Gives you a conceptual representation  
-	This increases your mindfulness as a designer, connects you to the texture of the domain, and helps you communicate and discuss with other stakeholders  
-	Having this intermediate, conceptual representation makes it easier to be creative because you’re taking a couple small leaps instead of one big one  

####The outcome of activity analysis
-	What are the steps?(活動需要哪些步驟)  
-	What are the artifacts?(哪些物品會參與活動)  
-	What are the goals?(how you’ll measure success)  
-	What are the pain points?(現有系統有哪些不好的缺點)  

####You can and should adapt this
-	More or less formal?  
-	Diagrams? Text? Pictures? Video?  
-	Narrow or broad?  
	*	Individual v. group viewpoint?  
-	Include more or other things like joy points, not just pain points  

####Reference
+[Creating Design Goals](https://class.coursera.org/hci-003/lecture/78)  